Several Boulder City Council members said they have significant concerns about Google's application to build a new four-acre campus at 30th and Pearl streets that would draw as many as 1,500 workers every day.
The last project called up by the council was 1600 Pearl St. in February 2012.
Google agreed to set back the top story of one of the office buildings by 60 feet on one side and 30 feet on another to make the 55-foot tall structure appear less monolithic.
That worry is magnified by Google's reputation for building self-contained campuses that meet all workers' needs on site.
Young said she also has concerns about the 640 parking spaces, which could mean another 1,200 trips through that intersection every day.
"The presence of Google in Boulder would be a good thing in many ways," he said.
"There are things they were doing with automated transportation that are really cutting edge and would be a good fit with us.
At the same time, Weaver said a call up could send the wrong message.
In correspondence to City Council, Jose Beteta, president of the Latino Chamber of Commerce, praised Google for its community outreach work helping Latino youth learn about careers in science and technology and asked the council to approve the project.
Not allowing Google to expand will be a huge loss of opportunity for Latinos who are already struggling."
"These people coming in are going to be at least six figures.
The college town atmosphere will be gone forever.
Steve Pomerance, a former City Councilman and Camera columnist who has long said Boulder shouldn't add more jobs unless and until it solves housing and transportation issues, said the Pearl Place project is the culmination of a planning process that has addressed neither.
"The city has totally failed to deal with the urban design issues," he said.
Curtis Hubbard, a spokesman for Google, said the company is excited about expanding in what will be a dynamic neighborhood, and the project needs to be understood in the context of the adjacent Boulder Junction development, which includes a major RTD bus transfer station.
"This is the kind of development that is envisioned in this area and necessary for the transit center to be successful," he said.
This is one of the three hearts of Boulder, with downtown and the University of Colorado being the others."
Hubbard said Google feels like the project is a good match with Boulder's values.
