A Boulder jury on Monday found local immigration attorney Emily Cohen guilty of 13 of 21 theft counts brought against her following reports she defrauded numerous clients.
Cohen was stoic, arms folded on the table in front of her, as Boulder District Judge Andrew Hartman read the verdict for each of the 21 counts of felony theft she faced.
On count 20 the jury could not reach a unanimous verdict, leading Hartman to declare a mistrial on that charge.
"It's been a lengthy and complex trial, and you have been very thoughtful with your deliberations," Hartman said to the jurors before dismissing them.
After her arrest, numerous other clients came forward to report similar instances of paying Cohen for services they never received, and prosecutors originally brought 54 charges against her before electing to drop 33 of them as a hearing in November.
He said Cohen started her practice with very little experience and also was trying to raise a newborn child on her own.
She will be under the supervision of Boulder's community justice services until her sentencing hearing.
Garnett said he was very proud of the police and investigators and attorneys in his office that worked on this case.
"Obviously it is the nature of the process that someone walks away disappointed, and that's certainly how we're feeling right now," Louth said.
"It's often terrifying for them to come forward and testify in open court.
Siew, from Singapore, reached out to Cohen in February because the company she used to work for was attempting to terminate her J-1 visa and wanted her to respond it writing to preserve it.
"I finally went down to her office to try and meet her without an appointment and that's when I found out from the front office that there was a detective on the case for Emily Cohen," said Siew, who lives in Fort Collins and worked out her immigration situation on her own.
"This thing has really damaged me quite a bit, not only financially but also emotionally and I just want to bring justice because she not only cheated me out of my money, she has also cheated a few other immigrants," Siew said.
