Boulder's Human Relations Commission will hold a public hearing on a living wage for employees in the city Thursday evening at the West Senior Center.

The hearing is an opportunity to bring community members together to begin a "two-way conversation" about wages and the ability to meet living needs in Boulder, city spokesman Patrick von Keyserling said.

The city defines a living wage as "the wage that can meet the basic needs to maintain a safe, decent standard of living within the community," according to a news release.

Colorado's minimum wage is currently $8 and will increase to $8.23 on Jan. 1. The federal minimum wage has been $7.25 since 2009.

The city has not yet calculated a living wage to present, said Boulder community relations spokeswoman Carmen Atilano.

A 2011 study from the University of Washington's Center for Women's Welfare found a single adult would need to make an hourly wage of at least $11.60 to live self-sufficiently in Boulder County.

The Colorado Legislature currently limits cities from enacting a minimum wage that is higher than the state's minimum wage, and the hearing will bring up the question of whether the city should consider requesting the state repeal that statute in order to establish a living wage, Atilano said.

"It's really in everybody's interest to pay people a fair amount so they're not dependent on public services and can provide for families," said former state Rep. Claire Levy, now executive director of the Colorado Center on Law and Policy.

The five person council-appointed Human Relations Commission advises the City Council and wants to recommend that the council consider the issue of a living wage be added to its work plan, Atilano said.

This will be the second hearing about a living wage in Boulder this year.

The first was conducted Sept. 3 and was hosted by the Human Relations Commission, Boulder Chamber of Commerce, Latino Chamber of Commerce of Boulder County and the League of Women Voters of Boulder County.