A Boulder jury on Monday found local immigration attorney Emily Cohen guilty of 13 of 21 theft counts brought against her following reports she defrauded numerous clients.

Following a nearly nine day trial, the 12-person jury began deliberations at 1:30 p.m. Thursday, and spent all day Friday in the jury room before being sent home for the weekend. They returned with their finalized decisions just after 3 p.m. Monday.

Cohen was stoic, arms folded on the table in front of her, as Boulder District Judge Andrew Hartman read the verdict for each of the 21 counts of felony theft she faced.

The jury found Cohen not guilty of counts one, two, three and four. From that point Hartman read 13 guilty verdicts for the counts numbered five through 21. On count 20 the jury could not reach a unanimous verdict, leading Hartman to declare a mistrial on that charge. In total, Cohen was found not guilty on seven of the 21 counts.

Neither District Attorney Stan Garnett nor defense attorney Steven Louth elected to poll the individual jury members about the verdicts they reached.

"It's been a lengthy and complex trial, and you have been very thoughtful with your deliberations," Hartman said to the jurors before dismissing them.

Cohen calmly looked down at the defense table as the jury left the room.

The 34 year old attorney was arrested in February after seven families alleged she agreed to represent them in various immigration cases, collected more than $41,000 in combined fees and then dropped out of contact without producing any of the visas or work permits she promised to help them obtain.

After her arrest, numerous other clients came forward to report similar instances of paying Cohen for services they never received, and prosecutors originally brought 54 charges against her before electing to drop 33 of them as a hearing in November.

At trial, Garnett said Cohen took advantage of the fact that most of her clients did not speak much English and had immigration issues that might prevent them from going to the authorities when bilking them out of money.

Louth, said in his closing arguments Thursday that his client never intended to take the money without providing the services. He said Cohen started her practice with very little experience and also was trying to raise a newborn child on her own.

Following the conclusion of the trial, Louth thanked the jurors for their hard work as he exited the courtroom with Cohen. Cohen was not remanded into custody and her bond was not revoked. She will be under the supervision of Boulder's community justice services until her sentencing hearing.

"Obviously it is the nature of the process that someone walks away disappointed, and that's certainly how we're feeling right now," Louth said.

He said any decisions about possible appeals would be made once his client's sentence is known.

Garnett said he was very proud of the police and investigators and attorneys in his office that worked on this case. He also praised the jury for treating the immigrant witnesses fairly.

"What the community needs to understand is that immigrants in our midst from any country are very vulnerable and very susceptible to criminals who wish to take advantage of them," he said. "It's often terrifying for them to come forward and testify in open court. This is a fair community, and this verdict reflects that this community wants to protect everyone, even the most vulnerable."

One former Cohen client who testified against her at trial was Lynette Siew.

Siew, from Singapore, reached out to Cohen in February because the company she used to work for was attempting to terminate her J-1 visa and wanted her to respond it writing to preserve it.

Siew said she paid Cohen $4,750 to help her resolve the situation. At first, Cohen was responsive, getting back to her on when she had questions within a few days, Siew said, but then the attorney became less and less responsive, taking up to a week to respond to inquiries about the visa issue.

"I finally went down to her office to try and meet her without an appointment and that's when I found out from the front office that there was a detective on the case for Emily Cohen," said Siew, who lives in Fort Collins and worked out her immigration situation on her own. "I don't even know if she spoke to my sponsor company because my sponsor company said they had never heard of Emily Cohen."

Siew said she was satisfied and thankful for the jury's verdict in the case, adding that she plans to give a statement at Cohen's sentencing hearing.

"This thing has really damaged me quite a bit, not only financially but also emotionally and I just want to bring justice because she not only cheated me out of my money, she has also cheated a few other immigrants," Siew said. "It's hard for me to forgive a layer like her. She showed no remorse and she still thinks she is innocent after all the people she has hurt."

The Colorado Attorneys' Fund for Client Protection has been involved in addressing the financial damage done by Cohen. So far the fund has approved payments in 41 filings related to her activities, with total payments to date totaling $228,462, according to the Colorado Office of Attorney Regulation Counsel. State officials hope other victims also will come forward and access the fund.

Cohen is scheduled to be sentenced in the theft case on Feb. 18. She is also facing disbarment in a separate state hearing also to be settled in February.