The Boulder Valley School District is planning to sell $225 million in bonds in February or March to pay for the first round of construction projects in its $576.5 million construction package.

Don Orr, Boulder Valley's assistant superintendent of operations, said projects were chosen for the first round because they would have the most impact on enhancing the learning environment, would require extensive design work, were complex or in the case of Peak to Peak and Summit charter schools, have design work already completed.

The bond issue was approved by voters in November.

Construction is expected to start in the summer and continue for the next six to eight years, with the district repairing and upgrading all of its 55 schools, including rebuilding three elementary schools. The 31,000-student school district also will build a new school in fast-growing Erie and add a centralized kitchen and new transportation center.

"We're feeling good about where we are in the planning process," said Superintendent Bruce Messinger. "We want to keep the design work moving."

The makeup and changing rooms below the stage at Boulder High School also are among the areas at the school to be renovated during phase one of
Included in the first round are the three elementary schools that are in bad enough shape that they'll be replaced with new buildings — Creekside, Douglass and Emerald. The new buildings are slated to open in the fall of 2017.

The first phase also includes planning for a new K-8 campus in Erie, which may either be a K-8 or a separate elementary and middle school. The planning for the Erie campus will start with a community vision process. The earliest the new Erie campus would open is the fall of 2018.

Other schools made the first phase because they're getting air conditioning to accommodate summer programs. Boulder and Centaurus high schools, which are two of the more complex projects because of the scope of upgrades and repairs, also made the phase one list.

After the first of the year, the district plans to ask for applications for members of an oversight committee, who will be appointed by the school board to represent the district's different geographic areas and interest groups.

Once the design work starts, each school also will create a design advisory committee to give input to the architects.

Also after the first of the year, the district plans to work with an "innovation director," who will help inform the design teams for the replacement schools about innovative and best practices.

"We don't want to build for the '50s and '60s," Messinger said. "We want to build for the future."