The new and improved Museum of Boulder, scheduled to open at Broadway and Pine Street in 2017, celebrated a $500,000 grant awarded Wednesday by the National Endowment for the Humanities, a major step in a multimillion-dollar fundraising effort that now enters its final stretch.

The award comes on the heels of the almost 2-to-1 passage in November of ballot measure 2A, a temporary sales tax to support arts and culture in Boulder. Roughly $4 million of the tax's proceeds will go to the museum.

With the NEH grant, 2A and another $1 million secured prior to Election Day, the Museum of Boulder is almost 70 percent of the way toward its original fundraising goal of $8 million, which would allow the museum to move into the Boulder Masonic Lodge, 2205 Broadway, and vastly expand its programming and exhibitions.

Nancy Geyer, the museum's director, said the NEH award is testament to the project's popularity.

"With the overwhelming support from the 2A initiative, I think that showed that people in Boulder are willing to pay a little bit extra to support arts and culture," Geyer said. "And what this NEH grant shows is this is a very viable project, and it's more than just the Boulder community that recognizes that."

She anticipates the full reboot of the museum — now operating as the Boulder History Museum — will transform it from a lightly trafficked and tucked-away 4,000-square-foot space on University Hill to a more ambitious 16,000-square-foot destination with greater potential to draw tourists and locals alike.

"With the expansion into the new building and our rebranding as the Museum of Boulder, we are not only going to tell the really cool stories of Boulder's history, but we're also going to bring the museum up to what's going on in Boulder today," Geyer said.

She added that the new space will host exhibits and programs that showcase the city's innovation in science and technology, natural foods, athletics and more, in addition to the existing history-focused features. The new space will also include programming targeted specifically at kids.

The city's rich past and present both deserve more than local recognition, museum chairman Bob Yates said.

"We have done an adequate job of reflecting the history and character, but we can do much better," he said. "Boulder needs a place where its unique character can be showcased, celebrated and shared."

Yates said the retooled museum will look to add traveling exhibits from around the county and the world.

The Museum of Boulder now turns its attention to the final portion of fundraising, which it hopes to complete mainly through individual and corporate donations. Yates said he hopes to secure the final $2.5 million by the end of 2015 and that renovations could start as soon as early 2016.

"We got here a lot faster than we thought we would," he added. "We're going to be able to create this really great museum much more quickly. ... There's a lot of momentum right now, and people really want to jump on the train."