The Boulder City Council met behind closed doors for the first time Monday evening, the historic debut of the elected body's new voter-bestowed ability to discuss municipalization-related strategy and legal advice in secret.

The council met publicly in the Boulder Municipal Building just after 6 p.m., then voted unanimously to adjourn to executive session around 6:20 p.m. for what had been scheduled to be a roughly two-hour meeting.

At just after 8 p.m., the council re-convened and voted to extend the session by another two hours, finally emerging after 9:30 p.m. and adjourning at 9:48 p.m.

The city's Channel 8 television network broadcast the public portion of the meeting, then, to the strains of a smooth-jazz soundtrack, continued to show the empty council chambers behind a placard indicating the body was meeting in executive session.

While Colorado law allows city governments to meet in closed session to discuss legal matters, personnel decisions and real estate transactions, Boulder's city charter had required that all council meetings be open to the public.

In November, Boulder voters approved Ballot Issue 2B by a 56-to-44 margin. The ballot issue gave the City Council limited ability to meet in closed sessions to get legal advice and discuss negotiation strategy related to the formation of a municipal utility.

At the opening of Monday's meeting, City Attorney Tom Carr walked the council through the ground rules of its new closed-door sessions: no votes can be taken, everything is recorded, and those recordings can only be released by unanimous vote of the council.

"No conversations at all, not even casual conversations, until I turn on the recorder," Carr said.

He also warned the council members to stay on topic: "If you think we've strayed, and two of you believe that, then we stop," he said.

After some controversy, the council last week agreed to keep recordings of closed sessions at least through the end of 2022, five years after Boulder's voter-approved executive session authority expires.

"I'm hopeful that in the future we will find a way to release some or all of these tapes to the public, when there is no longer a risk to the city for us to do so," Councilman Sam Weaver told his colleagues. "Be thinking of it as it if could be a future public document."

Carr also reassured the council that what they were doing was legal.

After the Canvass Board failed to certify Boulder County's election, there has been some debate as to whether local results are valid. Carr said that because Boulder is a home rule city, the City Council acts as its own canvass board, and has certified Boulder's city election results.

"We spent some time over the weekend trying to determine whether our ballot measure passed, allowing you to go into executive session," Carr said. "We have concluded that it did."

After the marathon session, several council members took a moment to publicly thank voters for their confidence and reiterate the importance of the closed-door meetings when it comes to municipalization and the litigation surrounding it.

“It makes a huge difference on our ability to be able to reflect the desires of the community and to discuss both the risks and opportunities as they are expressed in legal cases freely with each other and with staff,” Councilman Macon Cowles said.

The Boulder City Council will hold its regularly scheduled meeting at 6 p.m. Tuesday in the Municipal Building, 1777 Broadway.